\chapter{Introduction}
\label{chap:Introduction}

\section{Background}
\label{sec:background}

Many large, distributed applications (particularly in 'enterprise' environments)
make extensive use of messaging brokers - software (or
hardware\cite{solaceappliances}) responsible for passing messages at
layer-7\footnote{\url{https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/kb/103884}} between
services, over the network. Two examples of such software are
\href{http://www.tibco.com/products/automation/enterprise-messaging/enterprise-message-service}{TibcoEMS}
and \href{https://www.rabbitmq.com/}{RabbitMQ}. Brokers improve the software
development experience for engineers working on distributed applications, by
abstracting away complexities involved with passing messages between software
running on distributed, heterogeneous hardware - which may be separated by
networks operated by multiple different administrators, and with suboptimal
qualities.\footnote{\url{https://blogs.oracle.com/jag/resource/Fallacies.html}}.
These broker benefits are explored in-depth in Section~\ref{sec:brokers}.

\href{https://golang.org/}{GoLang} is a modern, cross-platform, open-source
programming language initially developed by Google, and designed primarily for
systems programming, with a focus on writing performant, network-oriented
software, such as \href{https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes}{service
cluster managers}, \href{https://github.com/mholt/caddy}{web-servers} and
monitoring software (such as
\href{https://github.com/grafana/grafana}{Grafana}\footnote{Which is used to
provide monitoring and dashboard-ing for this project - see
Section~\ref{sec:presentationInterface}}). More information on GoLang can be
found in Section~\ref{sec:GoLang}

\section{Goals}
This project centres around building an enterprise-style messaging broker, as an
exercise in designing network-oriented distributed applications using a modern
programming language (GoLang), whilst following software design, test and
architecture best practises - such as unit-testing, \gls{ci}, and
built-in monitoring.

In broad strokes, my project has the following goals:

 \begin{itemize}
   \item Evaluate the impact and usefulness of GoLang's fairly unique set of
   concurrency primitives in constructing and testing high performance software.
   \item Design and build a well-tested, stable message broker in GoLang.
   \item Evaluate the performance and feature-set of my implementation.
 \end{itemize}
